Musk owned a McLaren F1 supercar, which he crashed while it was uninsured.
 He also previously owned an Aero L-39, a Czech-made jet trainer aircraft.


The 1994 model Dassault Falcon 900 aircraft used in the 2005 film Thank You for Smoking is registered to Musk (N900SX), and Musk had a cameo as the pilot of his plane, opening the door for Robert Duvall and escorting Aaron Eckhart aboard.
 Musk owns Wet Nellie, the Lotus Esprit from the James Bond film The Spy Who Loved Me.
 He plans to convert it into the functional car-submarine from the film.


Musk attended the Burning Man festival in 2004 and has said he first thought up the idea for SolarCity at the festival.


Tosca Musk, Elon's sister, is a filmmaker.
 She is the founder of Musk Entertainment and has produced various movies.


Musk stated that he wants to die on Mars, just not on impact.


Musk is chairman of the Musk Foundation, which focuses its philanthropic efforts on providing solar-power energy systems in disaster areas.
 In 2010, the Musk Foundation collaborated with SolarCity to donate a 25-kW solar power system to the South Bay Community Alliance's (SBCA) hurricane response center in Coden, Alabama.
 In July 2011, the Musk Foundation donated US$250,000 towards a solar power project in Sōma, Japan, a city that had been recently devastated by tsunami.


In July 2014, Musk was asked by cartoonist Matthew Inman and William Terbo, the grandnephew of Nikola Tesla, to donate US$8 million toward the construction of the Tesla Science Center at Wardenclyffe.
 Ultimately, Musk agreed to donate US$1 million toward the project and additionally pledged to build a Tesla Supercharger in the museum car park.


Musk donated US$10 million to the Future of Life Institute in January 2015, to run a global research program aimed at keeping artificial intelligence beneficial to humanity.


As of 2015, Musk is a trustee of the X Prize Foundation and a signatory of The Giving Pledge.



Musk met his first wife, Canadian author Justine Wilson, while both were students at Ontario's Queen's University.
 They married in 2000 and separated in 2008.


Their first son, Nevada Alexander Musk, died of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) at the age of ten weeks.
 They later had five sons through in vitro fertilization – twins in 2004, followed by triplets in 2006 – all of whom they share custody of.


In 2008, Musk began dating English actress Talulah Riley, and in 2010, the couple married.
 In January 2012, Musk announced that he had ended his four-year relationship with Riley, tweeting to Riley, "It was an amazing four years.
 I will love you forever.
 You will make someone very happy one day.
" In July 2013, Musk and Riley remarried.
 In December 2014, Musk filed for a second divorce from Riley, however, the action was withdrawn.
 It was announced in March 2016 that divorce proceedings were again under way, this time with Riley filing for divorce from Musk.
 The divorce was finalized in late 2016.


Musk began dating American actress Amber Heard in 2016 but split after one year due to their conflicting schedules.
 

In an apparent self-admission of mixing zolpidem and alcohol, Musk tweeted in June 2017 "A little red wine, vintage record, some Ambien .

 and magic!".
 Health authorities advise to not take zolpidem together with alcohol, which can be a highly addictive combination and increase the risk of experiencing dangerous side-effects.
 Musk gained media attention for advocating the dangerous drug combination publicly on his social media.
