Politically, Musk has described himself as half Democrat, half Republican.
 In his own words: I'm somewhere in the middle, socially liberal and fiscally conservative.
 In 2016, Musk became a member of two of then President-elect Donald Trump's presidential advisory committees (the Strategic and Policy Forum and Manufacturing Jobs Initiative) but resigned from both in 2017, in protest at Trump's decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement on climate change.


Musk has described himself as nauseatingly pro-American.
 According to Musk, the United States is [inarguably] the greatest country that has ever existed on Earth, describing it as the greatest force for good of any country that's ever been.
 Musk believes outright that there would not be democracy in the world if not for the United States, arguing there were three separate occasions in the 20th-century where democracy would have fallen with World War I, World War II and the Cold War, if not for the United States.
 Musk also stated that he thinks it would be a mistake to say the United States is perfect, it certainly is not.
 There have been many foolish things the United States has done and bad things the United States has done.


Prompted by the emergence of self-driving cars and Artificial Intelligence, Musk has voiced support for a Universal Basic Income.


Prior to the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States, Musk criticized candidate Trump by saying: I feel a bit stronger that he is probably not the right guy.
 He doesn't seem to have the sort of character that reflects well on the United States.
 Following Donald Trump's inauguration, Musk expressed approval of Trump's choice of Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State and accepted an invitation to appear on a panel advising President Trump.
 Regarding his cooperation with Trump, Musk has subsequently commented: The more voices of reason that the President hears, the better.


In an interview with the Washington Post, Musk stated he was a significant (though not top-tier) donor to Democrats, but that he also gives heavily to Republicans.
 Musk further stated, in order to have your voice be heard in Washington, you have to make some little contribution.


A recent report from the Sunlight Foundation (a nonpartisan group that tracks government spending), found that SpaceX has spent over US$4 million on lobbying Congress since it was established in 2002 and doled out more than US$800,000 in political contributions to Democrats and Republicans.
 The same report noted that SpaceX's campaign to win political support has been systematic and sophisticated, and that unlike most tech-startups, SpaceX has maintained a significant lobbying presence in Washington almost since day 1.
 The report further noted that Musk himself has donated roughly US$725,000 to various campaigns since 2002.
 In 2004, he contributed US$2,000 to President George W.
 Bush's reelection campaign, maxing out (over US$100,000) to Obama's reelection campaign and donated US$5,000 to Republican Sen.
 Marco Rubio, who represents Florida, a state critical to the space industry.
 All told, Musk and SpaceX gave out roughly US$250,000 in the 2012 election cycle.
 Additionally, SpaceX hired former Republican Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott to represent the company, via the Washington-based lobbying group Patton Boggs LLP.
 Alongside Patton Boggs LLP, SpaceX uses several other outside lobbying firms, who work alongside SpaceX's own lobbyists.


Musk had been a supporter of the U.S. political action committee (PAC) FWD.
us, which was started by fellow high-profile entrepreneur Mark Zuckerberg and advocates for immigration reform.
 However, in May 2013, Musk publicly withdrew his support in protest of advertisements the PAC was running that supported causes like the Keystone Pipeline.
 Musk and other members, including David O.
 Sacks, pulled out, criticizing the strategy as cynical.
 Musk further stated, we shouldn't give in to the politics.
 If we give in to that, we'll get the political system we deserve.


In December 2013, Sean Becker of the media/political website Mic called Musk a complete hypocrite, stating that [for] the 2014 election cycle, Musk has contributed to the Longhorn PAC and the National Republican Congressional Committee — both of which have funded the campaigns of anti-science, anti-environment candidates such as Rep.
 Michelle Bachman (R-Minn.
).
 Musk has directly contributed to Republican Sen.
 Marco Rubio, who has been accused of holding similar positions regarding climate change.
